a famous army horse is bidding farewell
to his military life today at 22 Thomas
is one of the oldest horses in the
household cavalry he's been involved in
all the recent major state occasions and
over the years he's out many a nervous
Rider gain their confidence but his most
famous for his sloppy kisses which he
freely gives out in return for a mint so
this morning I went to meet him to put
his party piece to the test before he
heads off for a well-deserved rest
well this is Thomas and he served 18
years in the Harris old cavalry doesn't
look look bad for an old chap does he
but today is his last day here at hyde
park barracks is down into retirement to
Berkshire I'm now joined by riding
master captain richard chambers what
makes Thomas such a fantastic horse
apart for the fact he's pulling me
around at the moment
he's a genuinely nice horse everything
about him he's good he's he's nice to
work with in the stables he's a
comfortable ride he's a pleasurable ride
he doesn't pull your arms out and the
guys just all love him they think he's
the best they've got he's very handsome
even if you know nothing about horses
you can't fail to notice that really in
fact he's so good-looking that he was
the model for the animal war memorial on
Park Lane wasn't hideous but he's got
another talent hasn't he has he has
Thomas he's renowned for the ladies and
giving kisses so if you wanted to try if
you've got a mint that just wants my
mint so you really want to give me a
kiss and but is everyone here gonna be
very sad to see him go yeah very much so
I mean even I've ridden this awesome
parade and he has he's been fantastic
and it'll be a you know sad day they
walk nice in schools with him now in
retirement
lots of relaxation lots of grass kicking
his heels up hopefully going out for a
couple of packs a week but generally
just retiring in
and enjoying himself taking him away
from the hustle and bustle of London
which is always a nice thing after they
serve for so long I'm gonna see if he'll
give me another kiss just to finish can
I have another kiss Thomas come on mmm
oh thank you happy retirement